{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Monaco;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid501\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid6}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14320\viewh17840\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Tips for transcribing and translating Scaliger\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Base document is the most recent copy of the most recent edition:\uc0\u8232 1629 Geneva - Opus_de_emendatione_temporum_hac_postrem.pdf\
{\listtext	\'95	}A page of the transcription matches a page of the original\
{\listtext	\'95	}In the transcription, each sentence starts on a new line, and is numbered using a numbered list\
{\listtext	\'95	}If a sentence in the original flows over to the next page, all of it will be put at the end of the earlier page in the transcription. The first sentence in the next page of the transcription will match the first sentence in the original of which the first word is on the next page.\
{\listtext	\'95	}The original has page numbers at the top of the page. The transcription will have page numbers at the bottom of the page, formatted as "Pagina XX", and right justified.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Use the "U. S. Extended" keyboard for the Latin (i.e. non-Greek and non-Hebrew) parts of the text. This allows you to enter the abbreviating dash-above-character by pressing Alt-a, and the long s by press-and-hold of 's'.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
There will be two transcriptions:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	1.	}A litteral transcription. Uses of characters, abbriviations, diacriticals etcetera will follow the original as closely as possible. This will be the 
\f1\fs24 Latin transcript (lit).rtf
\f0\fs28  file.\
{\listtext	2.	}An interpreted transcription. Abbriviations are expanded, ligatures expanded, all characters converted to a modern 26 character latin alphabet, etcetera. This will be the 
\f1\fs24 Latin transcript (int).rtf
\f0\fs28  file.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
In particular:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}"u" and "v" are used exchangeably in the original. In the litteral, always transcribe "u" as "u" and "v" as "v". In the interpreted, convert to "u" if a vowel, and to a "v" if a consonnant.\
{\listtext	\'95	}The "\uc0\u383 " (long s) can be entered in the litteral by pressing and holding the 's' key, then pressing 1 (or 2 for a "\u383 \u383 " double long s). In the interpreted, translitterate "\u383 " to "s" and "\u383 \u383 " to "ss".\
{\listtext	\'95	}Some words are shortened in the original.  Keep shortened in the litteral, transcribe as full word in the interpreted:\
{\listtext	\'95	}"Quoq;" becomes "Quoque"\
{\listtext	\'95	}"propagat\uc0\u257 " becomes "propagatam". Enter the line above the character using Alt-a (U. S. Extended keyboard required)\
{\listtext	\'95	}"n\uc0\u333 " becomes "non"\
{\listtext	\'95	}"\'e0" becomes "ab"\
{\listtext	\'95	}"Iulianae" is sometimes rendered as "Iulian\uc0\u553 ". Use a cedille (Alt-C) in litteral.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Occasionaly words are shortened using a period.\
{\listtext	\'95	}When the original uses "&" (short for "et"), use "&" in the litteral and "et" in the interpreted.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
Further tips:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural
\ls4\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Try to enter the bits of Greek using the 'Greek Polytonic' keyboard.\
{\listtext	\'95	}When not transcribing the Greek or Hebrew, replace with "[Greek]" or "[Hebrew]".\
{\listtext	\'95	}Any extra notes and remarks should go between square brackets.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Roman numerals: Use single unbreakable spaces (Alt-Space) between the symbols. After entering, make smaller 3 times (from 12 points to 9 points).\
{\listtext	\'95	}Use other editions to compare the transcription. They often give a different or no abbriviation, or different spacing.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
To facilitate entering the 'long s' (\uc0\u383 ) character, a change has been made to the Mac OS X configuration. The file:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \CocoaLigature0 /System/Library/Input Methods/PressAndHold.app/Contents/Resources/Keyboard-en.plist
\f0 \CocoaLigature1 \

\fs28 has been modified so that when you press and hold 's', the list of accented characters presented to the user now starts with the long s.\
To enter the long s either:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural
\ls5\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}press-and-hold s, then press 1 (to select the first item on the list)\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}press-and-hold s, then press TAB (to select the next, and in this case the first, item on the list), then press ENTER to confirm the selection.\
\pard\tx566\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural
\cf0 To enter a double long s, either:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural
\ls6\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}press-and-hold s, then press 2 (to select the second item on the list)\
{\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u8259 
\f0 	}press-and-hold s, then press TAB twice, then press ENTER to confirm the selection.\
}