{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Monaco;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid202\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid501\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid6}
{\list\listtemplateid7\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid601\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid602\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid7}
{\list\listtemplateid8\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid701\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid8}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid7\listoverridecount0\ls7}{\listoverride\listid8\listoverridecount0\ls8}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14320\viewh17840\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 Tips for transcribing and translating Scaliger\

\f1\b0\fs28 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Base document is the most recent copy of the most recent edition:\uc0\u8232 1629 Geneva - Opus_de_emendatione_temporum_hac_postrem.pdf\
{\listtext	\'95	}A page of the transcription matches a page of the original\
{\listtext	\'95	}In the transcription, each sentence is a new paragraph, and is numbered.\
{\listtext	\'95	}If a sentence in the original flows over to the next page, all of it will be put at the top of the next page in the transcription.  This is so that the letters in the margin will always start with "A" at the top of the page.\
{\listtext	\'95	}The original has page numbers at the top of the page. Pagenumbers in the transcription will be generated by LaTeX. We might change the pre-defined layout to something more resembling the original at some point.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Use the "U. S. Extended" keyboard for the Latin (i.e. non-Greek and non-Hebrew) parts of the text. This allows you to enter the abbreviating dash-above-character by pressing Alt-a.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
There will be two transcriptions:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	1.	}A litteral transcription. Uses of characters, abbriviations, diacriticals etcetera will follow the original as closely as possible. This will be in the 
\f2\fs24 transcriptlitteral
\f1\fs28  directory.\
{\listtext	2.	}An interpreted transcription. Abbriviations are expanded, ligatures expanded, all characters converted to a modern 26 character latin alphabet, etcetera. This will be the 
\f2\fs24 transcriptinterpret
\f1\fs28  directory.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 Particular tips:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}"u" and "v" are used exchangeably in the original. In the litteral, always transcribe "u" as "u" and "v" as "v". In the interpreted, convert to "u" if a vowel, and to a "v" if a consonnant.\
{\listtext	\'95	}With the Kepler Font package in LaTeX, the character "s" is automatically rendered as the "\uc0\u383 " (long s). To get a normal 's' (e.g. at the end of words) write "s=" in the LaTeX source.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Some words are shortened in the original.  Keep shortened in the litteral, transcribe as full word in the interpreted:\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}"Quoq;" becomes "Quoque"\
{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}"propagat\uc0\u257 " becomes "propagatam". Enter the line above the character using Alt-a (U. S. Extended keyboard required)\
{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}"n\uc0\u333 " becomes "non"\
{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}"\'e0" becomes "ab"\
{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}"Iulianae" is sometimes rendered as "Iulian\uc0\u553 ". Use a cedille (Alt-C) in litteral.\
{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}Occasionaly words are shortened using a period.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}When the original uses "&" (short for "et"), use "\\&" in the litteral (backslash is needed for LaTeX) and "et" in the interpreted.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Further tips:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Try to enter the bits of Greek using the 'Greek Polytonic' keyboard.\
{\listtext	\'95	}When not transcribing the Greek or Hebrew, replace with "[Greek]" or "[Hebrew]".\
{\listtext	\'95	}Any extra notes and remarks should go between square brackets.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Roman numerals: Use single unbreakable spaces (Alt-Space) between the symbols. After entering, make small caps using 
\f2\fs24 \\textsc
\f1\fs28 , e.g. 
\f2\fs24 \\textsc\{XXVII x x v i i\}
\f1\fs28 \
{\listtext	\'95	}Use other editions to compare the transcription. They often give a different or no abbriviation, or different spacing.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 Obsolete, but informative:\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs28 \cf0 To facilitate entering the 'long s' (\uc0\u383 ) character, a change has been made to the Mac OS X configuration. The file:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs24 \cf0 \CocoaLigature0 /System/Library/Input Methods/PressAndHold.app/Contents/Resources/Keyboard-en.plist
\f1 \CocoaLigature1 \

\fs28 has been modified so that when you press and hold 's', the list of accented characters presented to the user now starts with the long s.\
To enter the long s either:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}press-and-hold s, then press 1 (to select the first item on the list)\
{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}press-and-hold s, then press TAB (to select the next, and in this case the first, item on the list), then press ENTER to confirm the selection.\
\pard\tx566\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 To enter a double long s, either:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls6\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}press-and-hold s, then press 2 (to select the second item on the list)\
{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}press-and-hold s, then press TAB twice, then press ENTER to confirm the selection.\
\pard\tx566\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 How Scaliger divided his book\
\pard\tx566\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs28 \cf0 The book is divided into Liberi which are in turn divided into subjects of a few pages each. Some books are divided into Partes, some are not. Each Liber or Pars begins with an introduction before the first subject starts. Titles of the Liberi and Partes are usually only given in the table of contents, not in the body of the text. Though the parts are mentioned in the Table of Contents, they are not marked in the body of the text. If the Pars has a title, than sometimes that title is in the body of the text, just before and slightly bigger than the title of the first subject in that Pars, but sometimes it is not in the body. Partes do not start on a new page. Liberi usualy do. Sometimes (e.g. Liber Quartus) the title of the first subject which was mentioned in the ToC is missing from the body text.\
The structure goes as follows (numbers in parentheses are PDF file page numbers; even numbers are right-hand pages):\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls7\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}(16) Title page\
{\listtext	\'95	}(18) Dedication ("Domino Achilli Harlaeo", 4 pages)\
{\listtext	\'95	}(22) Another 2 pages ("Q. Sept. Florens Christianus de Iosephi Scaligeri")\
{\listtext	\'95	}(24) Greek quotes (3 pages)\
{\listtext	\'95	}(28) Prolegomena (52 pages)\
{\listtext	\'95	}(80) Table of contents (4 pages)\
{\listtext	\'95	}(84) Liber Primus ("De anno aequabili minore", pp 1-60, 18 subjects, 60 pages)\
{\listtext	\'95	}(144) Liber Secundus ("De anno Lunari", pp 61-187, 32 subjects, 127 pages)\
{\listtext	\'95	}(271) Liber Tertius ("De anno aequabili maiore", pp 188-226, 7 subjects, 39 pages)\
{\listtext	\'95	}(310) Liber Quartus ("De anno solari, tributus in partis quatuor", pp 227-344, 118 pages)\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls7\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}(319) Pars Prima (pp 227-272 & 353, 16 subjects)\
{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}(355) Secunda pars (pp 272-293, 5 subjects)\
{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}(376) Tertia pars ("De periodis solaribus.", pp 293-303, 5 subjects)\
{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}(386) Quarta pars ("De annis tropicis et lunaribus emendatis.", pp 303-353,  9 subjects)\
{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}(436) Omissa Lib. II & IV (p 353, two additions: to page 141 and to page 272)\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls7\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}(437) Liber Quintus ("Prior de epochis temporum", pp 354-530, 106 subjects, 117 pages)\
{\listtext	\'95	}(614) Liber Sextus ("Posterior de epochis temporum, in duas partes tributus", pp 531-624, 94 pages)\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls7\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}(624) Prior pars (pp 541-567, 10 subjects)\
{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}(657) Altera pars de duabus ("Quaestionibus Danielis", pp 574-624, 7 subjects)\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls7\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}(708) Liber Septimus ("De computis annalibus nationum", pp 625-783, 20 subjects, 159 pages)\
{\listtext	\'95	}(870) Nomenclator (Index,  9 pages)\
{\listtext	\'95	}(879) Index rerum et verborum memorabilium (Index, 21 pages)\
{\listtext	\'95	}(900) Index Graecarum vocum (Index, 6 pages)\
{\listtext	\'95	}(906) Index Orientalium vocum (Index,  8 pages)\
{\listtext	\'95	}(914) Operarum typographicarum; Errata ita corrigito (1 page)\
{\listtext	\'95	}(915) Operis de Emendatione Temporum Finis. (1 page)\
{\listtext	\'95	}(916) Two blank pages\
{\listtext	\'95	}(918) "Veterum Graecorum Fragmenta Selecta" (p 1)\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls7\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}(919) Blank page (p 2)\
{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}(920) [Greek] "\uc0\u914 \u919 \u929 \u937 \u931 \u931 \u927 \u931  \u914 \u913 \u914 \u933 \u923 \u937 \u925 \u921 \u927 \u931  \u921 \u917 \u929 \u917 \u933 \u931  \u914 \u919 \u923 \u927 \u933  ..." (pp 3-8, 6 pages)\
{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}(926) "In fragmentum Berosi Babylonii sacerdotis beli ..." (pp 9-49, 41 pages)\
{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}(966) "Epochae in vetere instrumento quae certum characterem habent" (pp 49-51, 2 pages)\
{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}(969) "Characteres vetustatis, qui hodie apud Iudaeos" (pp 51-53, 3 pages)\
{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}(971) "Characteres temporum in novo testamento" (pp 54-59, 6 pages)\
\pard\tx566\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
For the transcription we can equate the subdivisions as follows:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls8\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}Liberi will be represented by LaTeX Chapters\
{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}Subjects will be represented by LaTeX Subsections\
{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}Partes will not be directly represented. Maybe by a special command which inserts the Pars text in the body (optional) and the ToC ("\\addcontentslline", in the Section style). Or maybe create a special kind of Chapter that has a Parts thing between Chapter and Section.\
{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}The bits before Primus Liber will go in the LaTeX Top matter, and be preceded by the "\\frontmatter" command.\
{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}The Prolegomena is a special Chapter with roman page numbers and no entry in the ToC (accomplished with the "\\frontmatter" command.\
{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}The four indices and the errata page will be represented as Appendices (precede by "\\appendix").\
{\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u8259 
\f1 	}The "Finis" page and the Veterum Graecorum part will be preceded by "\\backmatter"\
\pard\tx566\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
}